federalist 39 the conformity of the plan
to republican principles
for the independent journal madison to
the people of the state of new york
the last paper having concluded the
observations which were meant to
introduce
a candid survey of the plan of
government reported by the convention
we now proceed to the execution of that
part of our undertaking
the first question that offers itself is
whether the general form and
aspect of the government be strictly
republican
it is evident that no other form would
be reconcilable with the genius of the
people of america
with the fundamental principles of the
revolution or with that honorable
determination which animates every
votery of freedom
to rest all our political experiments on
the capacity of mankind for
self-government
if the plan of the convention therefore
be found to depart from the republican
character
its advocates must abandon it as no
longer defensible
what then are the distinctive characters
of the republican form
where an answer to this question to be
sought not by recurring to principles
but in the application of the term by
political writers to the constitution of
different states
no satisfactory one would ever be found
holland in which no participle of the
supreme authority is derived from the
people
has passed almost universally under the
denomination of a republic
the same title has been bestowed on
venice where absolute power over the
great body of the people is exercised in
the most absolute manner by a small body
of hereditary nobles
poland which is a mixture of aristocracy
and of monarchy in their worst forms
has been dignified with the same
appellation the government of england
which has one republican branch only
combined with an hereditary aristocracy
and monarchy has
with equal impropriety been frequently
placed on the list of republics
these examples which are nearly as
dissimilar to each other as to a genuine
republic
show the extreme inaccuracy with which
the term has been used in political
disquisitions
if we resort for a criterion to the
different principles on which different
forms of government are established
we may define a republic to be or at
least may bestow that name on a
government which derives all its powers
directly or indirectly from the great
body of the people
and is administered by persons holding
their offices during pleasure for a
limited period or during good behavior
it is essential to such a government
that it be derived from the great body
of the society not from an
inconsiderable proportion or a favored
class of it otherwise a handful of
tyrannical nobles exercising their
oppressions by a delegation of their
powers
might aspire to the rank of republicans
and claim for their government the
honorable title of republic
it is sufficient for such a government
that the persons administering it be
appointed either directly or indirectly
by the people
and that they hold their appointments by
either of the tenures just specified
otherwise every government in the united
states as well as every other popular
government that has been or can be well
organized or well
executed would be degraded from the
republican character
according to the constitution of every
state in the union some or other of the
officers of government are appointed
indirectly only by the people
according to most of them the chief
magistrate himself is so appointed and
according to one this mode of
appointment is extended to one of the
coordinate branches of the legislature
according to all the constitutions also
the tenure of the highest offices is
extended to a definite period
and in many instances both within the
legislative and executive departments to
a period of years
according to the provisions of most of
the constitutions again
as well as according to the most
respectable and received opinions on the
subject
the members of the judiciary department
are to retain their offices by the firm
tenure of good behavior
on comparing the constitution planned by
the convention with the standard here
fixed
we perceive at once that it is in the
most rigid sense conformable to it
the house of representatives like that
of one branch at least of all the state
legislatures
is elected immediately by the great body
of the people the senate like the
present congress
and the senate of maryland derives its
appointment indirectly from the people
the president is indirectly derived from
the choice of the people according to
the example in most of the states
even the judges with all other officers
of the union will
as in the several states be the choice
though a remote choice
of the people themselves the duration of
the appointments is equally conformable
to the republican standard
and to the model of state constitutions
the house of representatives is
periodically elective
as in all the states and for a period of
two years as in the state of south
carolina
the senate is elective for the period of
six years which is but one
year more than the period of the senate
of maryland and but two more than that
of the senates of new york and virginia
the president is to continue in office
for the period of four years
as in new york and delaware the chief
magistrate is elected for three years
and in south carolina
for two years in the other states the
election is annual
in several of the states however no
constitutional provision is made for the
impeachment of the chief magistrate and
in delaware and virginia he is not
impeachable till out of office
the president of the united states is
impeachable at any time during his
continuance in office
the tenure by which the judges are to
hold their places is as it
unquestionably ought to be
that of good behavior the tenure of the
ministerial offices generally
will be a subject of legal regulation
conformably to the reason of the case
and the example of the state
constitutions
could any further proof be required of
the republican complexion of this system
the most decisive one might be found in
its absolute prohibition of titles of
nobility
both under the federal and the state
governments and in its express guarantee
of the republican form to each of the
latter
but was not sufficient say the
adversaries of the proposed constitution
for the convention to adhere to the
republican form they ought with equal
care to have preserved the federal form
which regards the union as the
confederacy of sovereign states
instead of which they have framed a
national government which regards the
union as a consolidation of the states
and it is asked by what authority this
bold and radical innovation was
undertaken
the handle which has been made of this
objection requires that it should be
examined with some precision
without inquiring into the accuracy of
the distinction on which the objection
is founded
it will be necessary to adjust estimate
of its force first to ascertain the real
character of the government in question
secondly to inquire how far the
convention were authorized to propose
such a government
and thirdly how far the duty they owed
to their country could supply any defect
of regular authority
first in order to ascertain the real
character of the government
it may be considered in relation to the
foundation on which it is to be
established
to the sources from which its ordinary
powers are to be drawn to the operation
of those powers to the extent of them
and to the authority by which future
changes in the government are to be
introduced
on examining the first relation it
appears on one hand that the
constitution is to be founded
on the ascent and ratification of the
people of america given by deputies
elected for the special
purpose but on the other that this
ascent and ratification is to be given
by the people
not as individuals composing one entire
nation but as composing the distinct
and independent states to which they
respectively belong
it is to be the ascent and ratification
of the several states derived from the
supreme authority in each state
the authority of the people themselves
the act therefore
establishing the constitution will not
be a national but a federal
act that it will be a federal and not a
national act
as these terms are understood by the
objectors the act of the people as
forming so many independent states
not as forming one aggregate nation is
obvious from this single consideration
that it is to result neither from the
decision of a majority of the people
of the union nor from that of a majority
of the states it must result from the
unanimous ascent of the several states
that are parties to it
differing no otherwise from their
ordinary ascend than in its being
expressed
not by the legislative authority but by
that of the people themselves
were the people regarded in this
transaction as forming one nation
the will of the majority of the whole
people of the united states would bind
the minority in the same manner as the
majority in each state must bind the
minority
and the will of the majority must be
determined either by a comparison of the
individual votes
or by considering the will of the
majority of the states as evidence of
the will of a majority of the people of
the united states
neither of these rules have been adopted
each state in ratifying the constitution
is considered as a sovereign body
independent of all others and only to be
bound by its own voluntary act
in this relation then the new
constitution will if established be a
federal
and not a national constitution the next
relation is
to the sources from which the ordinary
powers of government are to be derived
the house of representatives will derive
its powers from the people of america
and the people will be represented in
the same proportion and on the same
principle
as they are in the legislature of a
particular state so far the government
is national not federal
the senate on the other hand will derive
its powers from the states as political
and co-equal societies
and these will be represented on the
principle of equality in the senate as
they now
are in the existing congress so far the
government is federal not national
the executive power will be derived from
a very compound source
the immediate election of the president
is to be made by the states in their
political characters
the votes allotted to them are in a
compound ratio which considers them
partly as distinct and co-equal
societies
partly as unequal members of the same
society the eventual election again
is to be made by that branch of the
legislature which consists of the
national representatives
but in this particular act they are to
be thrown into the form of individual
delegations from so many distinct and
co-equal bodies politic
from this aspect of the government it
appears to be of a mixed character
presenting at least as many federal
as national features the difference
between a federal and national
government as it relates to the
operation of the government
is supposed to consist in this that in
the former the powers operate on the
political bodies composing the
confederacy in their political
capacities in the latter
on the individual citizens composing the
nation in their individual capacities
on trying the constitution by this
criterion it falls under the national
not the federal character though perhaps
not so completely as has been understood
in several cases and particularly in the
trial of controversies to which states
may be parties
they must be viewed and proceeded
against in their collective and
political capacities only
so far the national countenance of the
government on this side seems to be
disfigured by a few federal features
but this blemish is perhaps unavoidable
in any plan and the operation of the
government on the people
in their individual capacities in its
ordinary and most essential proceedings
may
on the whole designated in this relation
a national government
but if the government be national with
regard to the operation of its powers
it changes its aspect again when we
contemplate it in relation to the extent
of its powers
the idea of a national government
involves in it not only an authority
over the individual citizens
but an indefinite supremacy over all
persons and things so far as they are
objects of lawful government
among people consolidated into one
nation this supremacy is completely
vested in the national legislature
among communities united for particular
purposes it is vested partly in the
general and partly in the municipal
legislatures
in the former case all local authorities
are subordinate to the supreme
and may be controlled directed or
abolished by it at pleasure
in the latter the local or municipal
authorities form distinct and
independent portions of the supremacy no
more subject within their respective
spheres to the general authority
then the general authority is subject to
them within its own sphere
in this relation then the proposed
government cannot be deemed a national
one since its jurisdiction extends to
certain enumerated objects only
and leaves to the several states a
residuary and inviolable sovereignty
over all other subjects
it is true that in controversies
relating to the boundary between the two
jurisdictions the tribunal which is
ultimately to decide is to be
established under the general government
but this does not change the principle
of the case the decision is to be
impartially made according to the rules
of the constitution
and all the usual and most effectual
precautions are taken to secure this
impartiality
some such tribunal is clearly essential
to prevent an appeal to the sword in a
dissolution of the compact
and that it ought to be established
under the general rather than under the
local governments
or to speak more properly that it could
be safely established under the first
alone is a position not likely to be
combated
if we try the constitution by its last
relation to the authority by which
amendments are to be made we find it
neither holy national nor wholly federal
word holy national the supreme and
ultimate authority would reside in the
majority of the people of the union
and this authority would be competent at
all times like that of a majority of
every national society to alter or
abolish its established government
we're at holy federal on the other hand
the concurrence of each state in the
union would be essential to every
alteration that would be binding on all
the mode provided by the plan of the
convention is not founded on either of
these principles
in requiring more than a majority and
particularly in computing the proportion
by states not by citizens it departs
from the national and
advances towards the federal character
in rendering the concurrence of less
than the whole number of states
sufficient
it loses again the federal and partakes
of the national character
the proposed constitution therefore is
instrictness neither a national nor a
federal constitution but a composition
of both
in its foundation it is federal not
national
in the sources from which the ordinary
powers of government are drawn
it is partly federal and partly national
in the operation of these powers it is
national
not federal in the extent of them again
it is federal not national
and finally in the authoritative mode of
introducing amendments
it is neither wholly federal nor wholly
national
publius